Using the illustration of the home window that's left open,
we know that while the vulnerability exists,
we have to consider the threats.
A threat can be categorized in several ways.
A threat can be intentional,
it can be unintentional,
or otherwise circumstance, capability, action, or event.
A thief planning to climb through the window and rob the place is an intentional threat,
while a snake seeking shelter on a hot day could be an unintentional threat.
While the snake may scare some people,
it's not intentionally planning to hurt anyone,
it's just looking for shade.
If it starts thunder storming and water drenches
your new computer that happens to be sitting on the desk next to the window,
that is a circumstantial threat.
Now bringing this back to the cyber world,
an intentional threat might be a cyber criminal
trying to hack a system while an employee who
accidentally sends an e-mail with sensitive information to
the wrong contact could be an unintentional threat.
Finally, a threat of circumstance could
be a wildfire that destroys all of your company's data.
While each of these threats can be seen in different lights,
they each can still expose a company to grave danger.
Threats don't only come from malicious hackers.
Majority of security breaches involve
human error that often stems from a company's employees.
For example in 2018,
it was reported that an employee from Punjab National Bank caused the company
to lose $1.8 billion, not millions, billions.
To do that, he organized the issuance of
fake loan requests which prompted two banks to provide those loans to PNB.
The employee admitted to having
unauthorized password access to their financial systems to
issue those fraud documents and he even
shared the credentials with others outside of the company.
This is a real example of how insider threat happens and it happens very often.
There are tons of external threat examples as well.
One is Unitypoint Health.
In 2018, the company released a report that it was hit
with one successful breach from an external attacker,
but it didn't end there.
The company became a honeypot and
attracted even more hackers to try and breach their systems.
The first time around,
a successful phishing attack resulted in the loss of 16,000 patient records.
But in its second breach within that same year,
the company was hit with more targeted phishing e-mails that led to the loss of
1.4 million patient records on individuals.
Though the external threat is obvious in this case,
this example interestingly enough has threats on both ends.
Not only is the external party that sent the phishing e-mail a threat,
but the internal employee who clicked the link to enable the attack is a threat as well.
Before cyber attackers hack into a system or technology,
they usually target and leverage human beings first as we saw in the last example.
As a result, roughly 80 percent of attacks are enabled by social engineering.
Social engineering is an attempt to trick someone into revealing information
such as a password that can be used to infiltrate systems or networks.
They are usually disguised as something nice or
helpful to the target like a sheep in wolf's clothing.
Phishing for example, is a technique for attempting
to acquire sensitive data such as bank account numbers through
a fraudulent solicitation in an e-mail where the perpetrator
acts like a legitimate business or reputable person that you can trust.
There are other variations like vishing,
in which it's like phishing,
but it's executed through voice call, or smishing,
which is executed through SMS or text message.
These attacks against people are usually an enabler to executing
other technology-based attacks such as delivering ransomware or malware to a victim,
conducting password attacks, and so much more.